[theme song starts]
[digital typing and beeping]
♪ Here we are, going far
To save all that we love ♪
♪ If we give all we've got
We will make it through ♪
♪ Here we are, like a star
Shining bright on your world ♪
♪ Today, make evil go away ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we'll reset it all ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, be there when you call ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we will stand real tall ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, stronger after all ♪
[digital whirring and beeping]
MAIDEN VOYAGE
[Jim] For those unfamiliar with the sport,
rock climbing is a noble discipline,
which can carry you to great heights.
A good climber commands
both mind and body.
This was well understood
by the famous Sherpa, Jensing Long,
who scaled Mount Everest
using only his bare hands,
thanks to the ancestral techniques
still taught by the Buddhist monks
from the order of Ki Shi Tsou.
And so, don't forget
that only by challenging yourselves,
can you move mountains
and, might I add, climb them.
Belpois, get up there.
[Jim] See if you're up to the challenge.
This'll be the practical part
of today's lesson.
[action music]
Go on.
[gasps]
[Jim] What's the matter?
Pull up with your arms,
and push off with your legs.
Have you got chewing gum for muscles
or what?
[grunts]
[Jeremy grunts]
[tense music]
[Jeremy yells]
[Jim] If the only exercise you get
is clicking your computer mouse,
you're not gonna conquer any peaks.
Della Robbia,
show your buddy here how it's done?
[tense music]
[Odd sighs]
[Aelita nods]
[indistinct chatter]
[Aelita] It's no big deal, Jeremy.
Well, Sourpuss, having a hard time
lifting your brain
with those stringbean arms?
Odd, do you mind?
Aelita, I hate to talk with my mouth full.
Would you mind taking over?
Sissi, your head is so full of helium,
you can float to the top.
[all laugh]
[Herb] Sometimes I wonder
if you don't ask for it.
Shut up, you dork!
[humphs]
What happened this morning?
-He'd to scale the rock wall in gym.
-OK, enough said.
I don't believe it.
I can't be that bad in every sport!
Of course not.
Actually,
you really are lame at anything athletic.
Anyway, who cares?
You can't be a champion at everything.
[Odd] Einstein, stop sulking.
If you want,
we can try scaling the wall together.
You think I have time for that?
-I've got too much work to do.
-[Yumi] Sure.
You and Aelita are all the time
shut up in the computer lab.
What are you working on?
We're ironing out the kinks on the Skid.
You still on that? I thought it was done.
Traveling for the network is not like
taking a stroll
through Lyoko.
And what's in the Digital Sea
is still a mystery.
[Jeremy] For all we know, the Skid
could disintegrate on its first dive.
That's reassuring.
[Odd] You gonna eat that?
-Go ahead.
-Cool!
We're gonna have to test it out one day,
if we want to take on XANA.
I said quiet down!
-[hushing]
-[chattering]
Quiet, I said!
Mr. Delmas said quiet down!
[Jim] That means now!
[gasps]
[clears throat]
Thank you, Jim.
-That's all right. Always glad to help.
-Yes, of course.
In case you've forgotten,
let me remind you today is FSRP Day,
which stands for
Fire Safety Risk and Prevention.
And so all afternoon classes
have been canceled.
[shouts of joy]
As I was saying, children,
your classes are canceled.
But this free time will be devoted
to a building evacuation exercise.
This drill is designed to make certain
you're familiar
with our security procedures,
procedures you'll need to know by heart.
It goes without saying
that access to the building
will be prohibited during the exercise.
I advise you…
Yumi is right, you know.
We'd better make a trial run in the Skid
just to see how it works.
But I don't know if we're ready yet.
We've got to try it out
before XANA gets even more powerful.
[Mr. Delmas] Thank you for your attention.
OK. We'll take advantage of the safety
drill to get to the computer lab.
Way to go, Jeremy!
Yeah, cool.
But listen up. This is a trial run
to work out the launch procedures.
Relax, we'll just dive in,
test it and come back.
[theme music]
[tense music]
[Jeremy] As we know,
Lyoko is made up of five sectors.
These sectors are located in the center
of a giant hollow sphere.
Imagine a kind of enormous virtual bubble
suspended in a liquid element.
This liquid element
is the world information network.
And the Digital Sea?
It is part of the network.
It's an overflow
accessible through a floodgate.
XANA goes through there
to attack us on Lyoko,
and the Skid'll use the same gate
to get us out.
Once we're off Lyoko, what then?
I imagine you'll be
in an immense network of tunnels,
but I don't have enough data
to tell you what you'll find.
It'll be a surprise.
Fabulous! I love surprises.
Well, what are we waiting for?
Hang on, Odd.
I haven't explained about configuring
the parameters of the engines
or the procedures
for transferring virtual mass or…
[Odd] Don't bother!
We'll work it out as we go along.
-[Odd] Hands-on experience.
-[Jeremy] But--
Don't worry. I'll be there with them.
[mechanical rumbling]
[Jeremy] You there?
I'll start the process.
[Ulrich] Ladies first.
[mechanical clanking]
[Jeremy] Transfer Aelita. Transfer Yumi.
Scanner Aelita.
Scanner Yumi.
Virtualization.
[digital whirring]
-[action music]
-[electrical whirring]
-[Yumi] It's OK. It's all quiet here.
-[Jeremy] Virtualization.
-[digital whirring]
-[Odd and Ulrich gasps]
Your elevator's waiting.
[tense music]
[footsteps]
[rumbling]
[electricity crackles]
[clanking and rumbling]
[whirring]
-[Ulrich] It's beautiful.
-[Yumi] Fantastic!
[Odd] Einstein, we made it
to the Skid hangar.
[Odd] Now what do we do?
Each of you get on a transporter spot.
[upbeat music]
-Well, who's driving?
-I am, of course.
[digital whirring]
You guys ready? Energize!
[engines rumbling]
[electricity crackling]
Wow! It's working, Jeremy.
[upbeat music]
[Aelita] Everything's in place,
according to plan.
[Aelita] Opening interface.
[digital whirring]
[Aelita through intercom]
Cockpit to Navskid. Do you read me?
[Yumi through intercom] Loud and clear.
-[Ulrich through intercom] Loud and clear.
-[Odd through intercom] Me too.
[Odd] Cool!
It's like being in a spaceship.
Yeah, but be careful.
This isn't Galactic Invaders.
[Odd] You're jealous 'cause I wiped out
more aliens than you did
[Ulrich] 'Cause you cheated.
OK, if you guys are done blabbering,
we can get on.
[Aelita] Standing by.
OK. Now, get ready for lift off.
Releasing supports.
[mechanical whirring]
[digital whirring]
We have ignition powering vertical.
[mechanical whirring]
-[mechanical whirring]
-[blasting]
For you, daddy.
[Aelita] Lift off!
[blasting]
[swooshing]
[Jeremy] All indicators are go.
You are good for leaving Sector Five.
[Aelita] Roger.
[whirring]
[swooshing]
[Jeremy] Tunnel open in two seconds.
[nods]
[swooshing]
[tense music]
It's working, Jeremy! Our Skid is working!
-[Yumi] Great!
-[Odd] Nice work, Einstein.
[Ulrich] Great job, Aelita.
Good. The test was a success.
Aelita, you all set to turn it around,
and go back into drydock?
[Ulrich] What? No way!
[Odd] I thought we'd test this thing.
That's what we did.
We just finished a dry run.
[Ulrich] A test in the Digital Sea.
Otherwise, what's the point?
They're right.
If we stay here in the sky on Lyoko,
it isn't much of a trial run.
[Aelita] Don't you wanna see
what the network looks like?
[groans]
[Jeremy] I feel
like I'm gonna regret this, but OK.
Get ready to dive into the Digital Sea.
-[Jeremy] Five minutes maximum.
-[Odd] Yeah!
[Aelita] OK, shields activated.
-Sonar activated.
-[digital whirring]
Stabilizers on line and checked out.
Primary axis clear.
Laser generators on line.
Cockpit to Navskids. Ready for a dive?
Ready.
Anytime Princess.
[groans]
[Aelita] Here we go.
[swooshing]
[blast]
Base lab to Skid. Do you read me?
Lab calling Skid. Aelita, come in.
-Answer, please!
-[computer beeping]
-[Aelita] Skid to base lab.
-[Jeremy sighs]
[Aelita] We're in the Digital Sea.
That's what I wanted to hear.
I nearly had a heart attack waiting,
but I'm okay now!
[mechanical clanking]
-[tense music]
-[burbling]
[Jeremy] Holoweb system on line.
[computer beeping]
[Jeremy] What does the network look like?
It's… beautiful.
I'm sending you a visual, Jeremy.
[computer beeping]
Wow!
[Odd] Yeah, you said it, Einstein.
Rotation.
[swooshing]
Aelita, engage turbo prop
and auxiliary engines
to break clear of Lyoko's gravity field.
Right. Whatever you say.
[Aelita] Turbo propeller engaged.
[blasting]
[swooshing]
[waltz music]
Wow!
[gasps]
[whirring]
[swooshing]
[blasting]
[Jeremy] OK.
That's it, guys. Now, head for home.
[Odd] Can't we stay a little longer?
I said five minutes, Odd.
Aelita.
[Aelita] Roger, turning around.
[Aelita] Starboard propulsion engaged.
[blasting]
-[Aelita] Bearing 160.
-[waltz music]
-[computer beeping]
-[tense music]
What's going on here?
Aelita, I don't know why,
but I just lost you on my radar.
It might be a transmission problem.
[Jeremy] Can you check it out?
[computer beeps]
The navigation system doesn't respond!
There's a bug in it!
[Jeremy] This can't be!
Without a navigation system,
you'll never find your way back to Lyoko.
You'll be stuck, floating on the network
'till you use up
all of the Skid's power reserves.
-[Aelita] Then what?
-Once the energy is exhausted,
the Skid'll break up and you'll end up
in the Digital Sea for good!
-Eternal virtualization… Like my father.
-[Jeremy] That's just great!
By the way, Einstein,
I hope you've got a solution
because I didn't bring my bathing suit.
[Jeremy] To get you out,
I have to debug the system,
except there are
several million codes to crack.
By then, you'll be in the drink… Unless…
[Yumi] Unless what?
I've got subprograms
that might debug and repair the system,
but I have to get them from my room.
I'll have to leave you for a moment.
[Odd] You couldn't have
brought it with you?
Hey! I wasn't the one who insisted
on doing this trial run.
So cool it, if you don't mind.
It won't help to get worked up.
Hurry and get your CD Rom.
We'll wait here.
[Jeremy] Be right back.
-Don't move!
-[Odd] Very funny.
[theme music]
[whirring]
[Odd] Weird.
It looks like an upside down city.
[Aelita] All these buildings
are the network's
interconnected data bases.
OK, why don't we turn on some light?
[metallic echoing]
-[metallic clanking]
-[grunts]
[tense music]
[panting]
-[Jim] Belpois!
-[gasps]
What do you think you're doing?
Why aren't you in the schoolyard?
[tense music]
Darn it, Fire Safety Day!
I forgot all about it. Just my luck!
[Jim] Hurry up.
If the principal sees you,
he's gonna ring my bell.
But I need to get something
from my room. It'll just take a second.
No, you don't.
You were all warned this morning,
and warning in hand is worth two
in the bush league. Beat it.
[Jeremy grunts]
[tense music]
[Jim] Did I tell you
about when I fought forest fires?
[Odd] Hey!
You think we'll live
to see the light of day?
Don't worry. Jeremy will find
a way to fix it, I'm sure.
[Yumi] Has anyone noticed
a change in the light?
[Aelita] You're right. That's strange.
-[grunts]
-[tense music]
[upbeat music]
[panting]
Another teacher standing guard?
What is this, Fort Knox?
[teacher humphs]
Well, there isn't any other way.
Hey, you guys see
that dark thing up there?
Yes, I'll shut the lights
to get a better view.
[Yumi] Aelita, you think that's Lyoko?
I don't know, but whatever it is,
its gravity is pulling us towards it.
[cracking]
[grunts]
-[tense music]
-[wind blowing]
[Jeremy] This is not gonna be
a piece o' cake.
OK, let's do it.
[gasps]
-[wind blowing]
-[gasps]
[grunts]
[yells and grunts]
[gasps]
[heavy breathing]
[grunts]
[sighs and shudders]
[tense music]
[grunts]
[yells and grunts]
[clanking]
[Odd] I'd love to see Einstein's face
when he figures out
we didn't need his help to come back.
[Ulrich] Yeah, it's nice
to be back on Lyoko.
-But it's not Lyoko.
-[Odd] Huh?
-[Ulrich] What?
-It's not Lyoko. Hang on now.
-Retro brakes.
-[blasting]
[beeping]
[swooshing]
[blasting]
[tense music]
[grunts]
Who said climbing
can take you to great heights?
[grunts]
-[tense music]
-[grunts]
I should monkey around more often.
[gasps]
[grunts]
[clanking]
[pants]
-[footsteps]
-[panting]
[panting]
[door creaks]
[Jeremy sighs]
[theme music]
[Yumi] There's something ahead.
[Ulrich] Look, it's Ugly and Uglier!
-They look like some sort of eels.
-[Odd] I never met an eel I didn't like.
Heads up. I'm breaking off.
[lasers blasting]
[swooshing]
I've seen spiked heels,
but spiked eels, never!
[panting]
-Hey!
-[Jeremy] Sorry,
got a fire to put out!
[lasers blasting]
[swooshing]
[upbeat music]
-[clanking]
-[action music]
-[laser blasting]
-[eels roaring]
[swooshing]
Holy cow, Aelita!
Be careful or you'll get us killed!
Who taught you to pilot?
You did, Odd.
-[Odd] Oh!
-[swooshing]
[laser blasting]
[all yelling]
[gasps]
[Yumi] Aelita, we won't make it
against these monsters.
[Aelita] I know.
We're almost out of energy.
The Skid could disintegrate at any moment
if Jeremy doesn't get back soon.
-[tense music]
-[door whirring and clanking]
-[computer blipping]
[computer beeps]
Aelita, I'm in the computer lab.
How are you holding up?
[Aelita through intercom]
We're in big trouble. XANA's attacking us
with a kind of fish.
[Aelita] Some kind of giant moray
or conger eels.
Have you started up the debugging program?
Yes, but you're burning too much power,
if this continues,
you guys'll be gone
before the debugging's done.
We have to buy some time.
OK, but how?
Get those congers off your tail,
and then launch the Navskids.
What? We're gonna fight them one on one?
[Jeremy] Exactly.
Just like in Galactic Invaders.
OK, bring ‘em on.
[swooshing]
Are you all set? Navskids aweigh!
[powering down]
[beeping]
[swooshing]
These are more maneuverable
than the overboards. Gangway!
[lasers blasting]
Be careful. If you get hit,
it means you'll be lost at sea.
Gotcha, Einstein.
Fire torpedoes!
-[blasting]
-[swooshing]
[Odd] Unbelievable! It's up to you, Yumi.
They're tough customers.
[Odd] You said it.
[Ulrich through intercom]
Yumi, behind you!
[swooshing]
[beeping]
[Yumi] OK, come and get me. Now!
-[blasting]
-[swooshing]
[Yumi] Got him!
Nice one, Yumi. You get better and better.
Maybe, but not good enough.
Careful. Don't forget that the Navskid's
autonomy is limited.
[Yumi] We'll do what we can.
These monsters are hard to hit.
Don't try to work any miracles.
-Just keep them away from the Skid.
-[Yumi] Right.
[action music]
Hey, fish freak,
looking for some more bait?
[laser blasting]
[sighs]
[swooshing]
[Ulrich] This time, I lost him.
The program is debugged.
I'm sending you your coordinates.
Get out of there, and fast!
Navskids in.
[electricity crackles]
Maximum propulsion.
[computer blipping]
[blasting and swooshing]
Trial run's over, back to drydock.
[theme music]
[Jeremy] I'd never have thought
that the world information network
was a real live ocean.
With fish and everything. Big ones too.
To think that my father
is in the network somewhere.
Yeah, and so is William.
That huge sphere we saw, what was that?
Another virtual world like Lyoko.
A replica that XANA must have created
from the data he stole from Aelita.
I wonder what he's thinking
of doing with it.
-We'll go and explore it.
-Yeah.
[Jeremy] Right, but not tonight.
I only feel like exploring my bed.
I'm wiped out.
Wiped out from sitting
in your cushy chair?
How do you think we feel?
If I told you
what I was doing
while you were on the network,
you'd never believe me.
Let me take a wild guess.
You did a little rock scaling on the roof.
[gasps]
But how'd you know that?
-[silly trumpet]
-[hums]
-[sad trombone]
-[all laugh]
Einstein, you can be really hilarious
when you wanna be.
Even when you don't wanna be.
[theme music]